= EM-HTTP-Client

EventMachine based HTTP Request interface. Supports streaming response processing, uses Ragel HTTP parser.
- Simple interface for single & parallel requests via deferred callbacks
- Automatic gzip & deflate decoding
- Basic-Auth & OAuth support
- Custom timeouts
- Proxy support (with SSL Tunneling)
- Auto-follow 3xx redirects with max depth
- Bi-directional communication with web-socket services

Screencast / Demo of using EM-HTTP-Request:
- http://everburning.com/news/eventmachine-screencast-em-http-request/

== Getting started

  # install & configure gemcutter repos
  gem update --system
  gem install gemcutter
  gem tumble

  gem install em-http-request

  irb:0> require 'em-http'

== Simple client example

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://127.0.0.1/').get :query => {'keyname' => 'value'}, :timeout => 10

    http.callback {
      p http.response_header.status
      p http.response_header
      p http.response

      EventMachine.stop
    }
  }

== Multi request example
Fire and wait for multiple requess to complete via the MultiRequest interface.

  EventMachine.run {
    multi = EventMachine::MultiRequest.new

    # add multiple requests to the multi-handler
    multi.add(EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.google.com/').get)
    multi.add(EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.yahoo.com/').get)

    multi.callback  {
      p multi.responses[:succeeded]
      p multi.responses[:failed]

      EventMachine.stop
    }
  }

== Basic-Auth example
Full basic author support. For OAuth, check examples/oauth-tweet.rb file.

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').get :head => {'authorization' => ['user', 'pass']}

    http.errback { failed }
    http.callback {
      p http.response_header
      EventMachine.stop
    }
  }


== POST example
  EventMachine.run {
    http1 = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').post :body => {"key1" => 1, "key2" => [2,3]}
    http2 = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').post :body => "some data"

    # ...
  }

== Streaming body processing
Allows you to consume an HTTP stream of content in real-time. Each time a new piece of conent is pushed
to the client, it is passed to the stream callback for you to operate on.

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').get
    http.stream { |chunk| print chunk }
  }

== Streaming file from disk
Allows you to efficiently stream a (large) file from disk via EventMachine's FileStream interface.

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').post :file => 'largefile.txt'
    http.callback { |chunk| puts "Upload finished!" }
  }

== Proxy example
Full transparent proxy support with support for SSL tunneling.

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.website.com/').get :proxy => {
      :host => 'www.myproxy.com',
      :port => 8080,
      :authorization => ['username', 'password'] # authorization is optional
  }

== Auto-follow 3xx redirects
Specify the max depth of redirects to follow, default is 0.

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new('http://www.google.com/').get :redirects => 1
    http.callback { p http.last_effective_url }
  }


== WebSocket example
Bi-directional communication with WebSockets: simply pass in a ws:// resource and the client will
negotiate the connection upgrade for you. On successfull handshake the callback is invoked, and
any incoming messages will be passed to the stream callback. The client can also send data to the
server at will by calling the "send" method!
- http://www.igvita.com/2009/12/22/ruby-websockets-tcp-for-the-browser/

  EventMachine.run {
    http = EventMachine::HttpRequest.new("ws://yourservice.com/websocket").get :timeout => 0

    http.errback { puts "oops" }
    http.callback {
      puts "WebSocket connected!"
      http.send("Hello client")
    }

    http.stream { |msg|
      puts "Recieved: #{msg}"
      http.send "Pong: #{msg}"
    }

    http.disconnect { puts "oops, dropped connection?" }
  }
